Lecturer(s): Dr Michael Chai, Dr Richard Clegg, Adnan Kiani

Summary
This course examines the TCP/IP protocol suite from OSI layers 1 through to 4. Particular emphasis is placed on CSMA/CD LAN operation, Internet Protocol including Addressing, Routing and Subnetting and Transmission Control Protocol. The aim is to provide an in-depth knowledge of contemporary and widely-deployed Internet Protocols, providing the student with an insight into their functionality and inter-relationship. The material is sufficient to enable the student to design basic intranet and internet architectures, including both bridged and routed networks. Consideration is also given to different transport layer protocols to provide features not inherently present in the underlying network.

Aims
The aim is to provide an in-depth knowledge of contemporary and widely-deployed Internet Protocols, providing the student with an insight into their functionality and inter-relationship. The material is sufficient to enable the student to design basic intranet and internet architectures, including both bridged and routed networks. Consideration is also given to different transport layer protocols to provide features not inherently present in the underlying network.

Syllabus
INTERNET PROTOCOLS: internetworking, introduction to local area networks and data link layer (layer 2), Ethernet, wireless, Layer 3 (IP) protocols, Layer 2 / Layer 3 Address Usage, Internetworking with IP Routers, Layer 4 (transport) protocols, Reliable Transport and Label switching protocols.

Learning Outcomes in Subject Specific Skills
By the end of the module the student will be able to:
At the end of this module students will be able to:
•	Explain the protocols that provide the Internet infrastructure, their role, how they operate and a number of implementation details.
•	Design simple network architectures.
• Perform basic configuration and fault diagnosis in an Interior Gateway Routed environment using IOS-like scripts and utilities such as Ping and TraceRoute

Transferable Skills
By the end of the module the student will be able to:
At the end of the module the student will be able to:
• Undertake fault diagnosis based on observations (required for the lab experiment).

Reading List
Computer Networking: A Top Down Approach, 7th edition, Jim Kurose, Keith Ross, Pearson/Addison Wesley, April 2016	Must Buy
