Lecturer(s): Dr Marie-Luce Bourguet


Summary
This unit will provide principles of interactive media design and production using conventional media processing tools. It will also provide fundamentals of multimedia processing, including sound, graphics, images and videos. 

Aims
To discuss principles of sound, graphics, image, and video processing.
To study human aspects and interaction in the creation of informative media structures using commercial tools
To practice presentation and design using interactive media tools
To discuss usability principles and evaluation for interactive media
Syllabus
Multimedia fundamentals: digitisation, colour spaces, image and video compression, psychoacoustics.
Human Computer Interaction principles and guidelines: human vision and memory
Designing for multimedia: use of text, images, sound, video, navigation and structure,
hypermedia
The multimedia development process: proof of concept, scripting, storyboarding,
flowcharts, inventories
Usability evaluation using heuristics.
Multimedia production: Flash CS3, Action Script 3.0, H5P
 

Learning Outcomes in Subject Specific Skills
By the end of the module the student will be able to:
Explain the fundamentals of interactive media processing, analysis and comprehension.
Demonstrate the skills needed for interaction in the creation of artistic and informative
media structures.
Demonstrate skills in presentation design according to human thinking, action and
creative dimensions.
Explain different aspects of interactive media dimensions including combinations of
media production and information sciences, arts subjects and education.
Explain how interactive multimedia is produced. 
Demonstrate skill in producing interactive multimedia.
Explain how interactive multimedia is processed and managed.


Transferable Skills
By the end of the module the student will be able to:
A group coursework will help students develop the following skills:
- Communication skills: coursework presentation and demonstration.
- Working with others: coursework in self selected group; self-designated and agreed
roles within groups.
- Problem solving: tackling of an open problem that implies the resolution of technical
and managerial issues; meetings and resources needed for the task must be monitored
by the group; self evaluation of the work implementation is also required.

 
Reading List

Digital Multimedia by Nigel Chapman, Jenny Chapman, Wiley, 3rd Edition (2009)

The Science of Digital Media, by J. Burg (2009)

Design Fundamentals for New Media, by J.G. Bennett (2005)

Design for New Media, by L. Barfield  (2004) [Highly Recommended]

Digital Media Tools, by Chapman & Chapman

Adobe Flash CS3 Professional Hands-on Training, by T. Perkins


